---
layout: post
title: (Part of) my experience at UQAM
categories: [Misc]
---

Moving out of Montreal has provided me the opportunity to reflect back onto the five years I spent here. Much has happened in many aspects of my life during this time and it's very painful to be leaving, but here I want to talk a bit about my time inside the walls of UQAM. <!--more-->

So, would I recommend a UQAM math/stat education to someone else? Most likely not.

I did have great professors, colleagues and courses here. I'm very satisfied with how globally I have been educated and how I've grown. But I think I got a lot out of UQAM because I had the time and the drive to go beyond what was offered. I'm not sure everybody would have the commitment and passion to do that - and it has taken a toll on me. 

Like in any other universities, most professors here are not available to meet and advise students. The worst was during my first year as an undergrad: professors would turn you away even during the scheduled office hours. In the second year I had learned my lesson and didn't try to show up to those anymore. I was fortunate enough to have a mentor/advisor, but not many students have this chance.  It's only in my third year and as a master student that I started getting in touch again. I've received great advice from some professors, notably from my advisor, from Jean-François Coeurjolly, Olivier Collin and François Bergeron, but only half of them are in statistics and none are in my field. I've seen many more burnouts and retirements than hires, and there are a few professors (even in our *small* deparment) that I've barely seen at university. While we have some great researchers, others are not active in research (and they're not any better teachers for it). Too many master students have had their studies last more than 2 years (full-time) and ended up not working in their field. And it's not only their fault. It's a shame that it has happened, it's a shame that others in the department have let it happen, and it's ridiculous that it's going to keep on happening.

So, do I recommand UQAM for, say, a master in statistics? If you know what you're doing, it will provide you access to standard scholarships, to the university library and *maybe* to an office. Jean-François Coeurjolly and Geneviève Lefebvre have done incredible work supporting research and students through the establishment of the group [StatQAM](https://statqam.uqam.ca/), so you might get something out of this, and there are some good supervisors here (them included).

However, I have the unfortunate impression that the environment at UQAM does not always properly support students in realizing their full potential, or at least that it fails too many of its students, and this feels crushingly wasteful to me. It's a very sensitive issue so I can't go into a lot of details, but I do want to be somewhat open about what I've seen.

**Disclaimer:** This post is in my *open notebook*, which provides a window into some of my very personal thoughts and feelings. I'm not trying to bash UQAM or anything like that. I've gotten a lot out of it, but I feel like I should inform prospective students of the pitfalls and opportunities that come with the imperfections of our department. 