---
layout: post
title: A feeling of wastefulness
categories: [Misc]
---

I attempted to write a short blog post yesterday about my experience in the statistics department at UQAM. That post - you can find it on my Github commit history if you really want - both praised some great people at UQAM and expressed a negative feeling that I have regarding our department. The negative feeling comes from how I think we too often fail in properly supporting students and in helping them achieve their full potential. I have personally been very lucky, but it's been quite a ride and certainly not everybody would strive in the kind of environment that I evolved in.

<!--more-->

It's obviously a very delicate subject, but I feel a responsibility to be open about both the opportunities and the pitfalls that come with the imperfections of our department at UQAM. That's also in line with the philosophy of this notebook: it's a completely transparent window to some of my academic thoughts and feelings. However, my discussion of these issues, which are not criticisms beyond simply statements of fact, is not yet quite ready for public release. Many aspects of the subject are too sensitive for me to post about on this blog. Hence I wouldn't be able to present a sufficiently detailed and nuanced account. It will have to wait.

---

Another part of the reason I pulled that post is that I got a somewhat angry call from my father. I didn't know he followed my blog, but what a great surprise. He told me that the content was fine (although I'm not sure he read it), but that the title, which was at that time "Wastefulness", could be misinterpreted. He was probably right, but I'm quite surprised by how much it got him worked up. He seemed to think that I was being ungrateful criticizing UQAM since I got so much out of it (much out of it meaning external scholarships). He told me that I probably would not have been successful going to a "tougher" school like McGill or Toronto. (Keep in mind that this guy, when he learned I got into Duke for my PhD, sent me an a link to an article titled "When you're in over your head".) It's true that UQAM was a good fit for me in that, when I first started university, I had absolutely no self-confidence (guess why). The "chill" and more familiar environment at UQAM (it's french-speaking) together with the smaller size of the campus is what made me choose that university. It took me some time to learn to trust myself, but I was in the end very successful in the graduate classes that I took at McGill, I independently worked on the research that I was passionate about and I got published. The good grades that I got, for instance in my third year differential topology seminar, is not what defines my "success". What made me stand out, for example in relationship with that seminar, is how I used what I had learned to develop criterions for topological consistency in level-set estimation, to write an expository paper about it in our canadian mathematics student journal, and to win a best poster award for a presentation of these (preliminary) ideas. I wasn't considered successful here because of the grade I got in easy classes. I worked very hard at becoming an independent researcher (and I'm still working on it), and that's what I got rewarded for. Nobody cares about my UQAM grades - I certainly don't. What matters is what I did with what I learned in and outside of my classes. 

So, yeah, I can criticize UQAM as much as I want and I'll eventually get to doing it. There's not reason to think I would have been anymore or less successful somewhere else, and that has nothing to do with anything.